![Secure Web Addressability Network](images/swan.128.pxls.100.dpi.png)

# Secure Web Addressability Network (SWAN) - Model Terms

**Version: 1.0**

*Copyright and disclaimer statement*

*Copyright © 2021 Shoosmiths LLP*

*Everyone is permitted to copy or distribute verbatim copies of these terms, but
changing these terms is not permitted. All distributed copies of these terms or
any thing incorporating them must include this copyright and disclaimer
statement.*

*These terms have been produced by the law firm Shoosmiths LLP. Nothing in these
terms shall be construed as legal advice and Shoosmiths LLP disclaims all
liability to any person using or relying on all or any part of these terms.*

**1.  DEFINITIONS**

“**Binding Principles**” means the principles set out in clause 4.

“**Breach Notification**” means a notice given in accordance with clause 8.2
that a Contracting Party has breached these Model Terms.

“**Change in Law**” means any change to any Data Protection Laws or other
applicable laws including any change in the interpretation of those laws by any
court of competent jurisdiction or Supervisory Authority.

“**Contracting Parties**” means the Parties to a Main Agreement and
“**Contracting Party**” shall be construed accordingly.

“**Controller**”, “**Data Subject**”, “**Personal Data**”, “**processing**”,
“**Processor**” and “**Supervisory Authority**” shall each have the meaning
given to them (and any expressions used to describe any similar concepts) in
Data Protection Laws and cognate terms shall be construed accordingly.

"**Controller Processing Description**” means the information set out in the
Annex.

“**Data Protection Laws**” means any legislation or other laws in any
jurisdiction applicable to a Contracting Party that relates to the protection of
personal data or privacy of natural persons including the use of cookies or
similar technologies.

“**Device**” means any web-enabled device or application accessing the SWAN
Network.

“**Pseudonymous Identifier**” means the SWID or, where applicable, hashed Raw
SWAN Data.

“**Main Agreement**” means an agreement incorporating these Model Terms, alone
or with other terms.

“**Model Terms**” means these terms and conditions.

“**Non-SWAN Data**” means any data other than the SWAN Data which a Party may
link to a Pseudonymous Identifier, including the SWAN Audit Log.

“**OWID Standard**” means the technical standard described at
<https://github.com/swan-community/owid>.

“**Party**” means any party bound to an agreement containing these Model Terms
and “**Parties**” shall be construed accordingly.

“**Preferences**” means an indication of a User’s consent or lack thereof
(expressed using a User Interface) to the processing of their SWAN Data together
with Non-SWAN Data for the purposes notified to the User in that interface,
including in relation to specific content.

“**Privacy Notice**” means a notice that contains all the mandatory information
that must be provided to a User in relation to the use of their Personal Data or
the use of cookies or similar technologies on their Device, in each case, under
Data Protection Laws.

“**Processor Processing Description**” means the information set out in the
Annex.

“**Raw SWAN Data**” means User-submitted information, such as an email address.

“**Receiver**” means the Contracting Party receiving the SWAN Data from the
Sender.

“**Restricted Data**” means any of the following: (i) Personal Data revealing
any individual’s racial or ethnic origin, political opinions, religious or
philosophical beliefs, or trade union membership, any genetic data, biometric
data used for the purpose of uniquely identifying an individual or Personal Data
concerning an individual’s health, sex life or sexual orientation; (ii) Personal
Data relating to an individual’s actual or alleged criminal convictions or
offences or any other Personal Data relating to an individual’s criminal
activity or history; or (iii) Personal Data categorised or defined as sensitive
or special category data under Data Protection Laws or for which those laws
require specific and explicit consent from a User.

“**Restricted Profiling**” means the collection of data concerning a User’s web
activity over time for the purpose of using such data to predict User
preferences or interests to deliver content to their Device.

“**Restricted Transfer**” means the transfer of SWAN Data and/or Non-SWAN Data
by a Party to another Party where that transfer would breach Data Protection
Laws if the Contracting Parties are not bound by the relevant Standard
Contractual Clauses.

“**Root Party**” means the Contracting Party initiating the originating
Transaction in a particular chain of Transactions.

“**Security Measures**” shall have the meaning given to it in clause 7.7.

“**Sender**” means the Contracting Party sending the SWAN Data to the Receiver.

“**Sign**” means a cryptographic confirmation of sending or receipt of SWAN
Data, conforming to the OWID Standard and cognate terms shall be construed
accordingly.

“**Standard Processor Clauses**” means the provisions set out in Article 28 of
the General Data Protection Regulation (EU 2016/679) or UK GDPR (as applicable)
or the then most recent final version of the model contractual terms published
by a competent authority or other body under Data Protection Laws to allow
Controllers and/or Processors to comply with their obligations under those laws
specifically in relation to the contractual terms agreed between them relating
to the processing of Personal Data.

“**Standard Transfer Clauses**” means the then most recent final version of the
relevant model contractual terms published by a competent authority or other
body under Data Protection Laws for the transfer or onward transfer of Personal
Data to a country or international organization for the purpose of ensuring an
adequate level of protection to the rights and freedoms of Data Subjects to whom
that Personal Data relates.

“**SWAN Audit Log**” means a log containing information received by a Party of
each Transaction that has been Signed.

“**SWAN Data**” means all Pseudonymous Identifiers and associated Preferences.

“**SWAN Ecosystem**” means each and every Party.

“**SWAN Network**” means each and every SWAN Operator.

“**SWAN Operator**” means the Party or Parties responsible for adding, updating,
deleting and controlling access to the SWAN Data;

“**SWAN Website**” means the website located at www.swan.community.

“**SWID**” means a random and unique identifier generated by the SWAN Operator
or User Interface Provider.

“**Transaction**” means the sending of SWAN Data from the Sender to the
Receiver.

“**User**” means a natural person using a Device.

“**User Interface**” means the interface used by a User to communicate their Raw
SWAN Data and Preferences to the SWAN Network.

“**User Interface Provider**” means a Contracting Party providing the User
Interface, such as a consent management platform.

**2.  COMMENCEMENT AND TERM**

1.  These Model Terms shall come into force on the effective date specified
        in the applicable Main Agreement or, if no such date is specified, on
        the date of last signature (including electronic signature) by both
        Contracting Parties of that Main Agreement.

2.  These Model Terms shall continue in force for as long as SWAN Data is
        used by the Receiver, subject to clause 8.

**3.  USING THESE MODEL TERMS**

1.  Each Contracting Party may be a Sender or Receiver and accordingly may
        send or receive SWAN Data to and from the other Contracting Party
        subject to these Model Terms provided that both Parties remain in
        compliance with these Model Terms.


**4.  THE BINDING PRINCIPLES**

1.  The effective operation and use of the SWAN Network involve many
    bilateral contractual relationships between Senders and Receivers, each
    subject to these Model Terms, but each Party acknowledges that it shares
    a collective responsibility to uphold the spirit and reputation of the
    SWAN Ecosystem as a whole.

2.  Each Party acknowledges and agrees to respect the fundamental rights of
    Users to express or change their Preferences and shall do nothing to
    undermine or diminish those rights.

3.  Each Party acknowledges and agrees that, through the SWAN Network
    (particularly through the use of the Pseudonymous Identifiers) Users
    have the right to be forgotten by dissociating their Device from any
    data associated with a Pseudonymous Identifier at any time. Each Party
    acknowledges and agrees not to attempt to undermine or diminish any
    User’s right to be forgotten.

4.  Each Party acknowledges and agrees that it may only use SWAN Data for
    the following purposes:

    1.  to plan and deliver content (whether targeted or otherwise) to a
        Device;

    2.  to measure the reach and responsiveness of the content it delivers;

    3.  to optimize the content it delivers;

    4.  to prevent or detect security incidents or fraudulent or illegal
        activity or to assist prosecute or apprehend those responsible for
        any of those incidents or activities; and

    5.  to defend, bring or establish legal claims or to comply with
        applicable law.

5.  Each Party shall act in good faith and reasonably at all times in
    respect of any activities it undertakes to adhere to the Binding
    Principles.

**5.  OBLIGATIONS OF THE PARTIES**

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<u>Initiating Transactions between Contracting Parties</u>

1.  The sharing of SWAN Data, whether on its own or in combination with
    Non-SWAN Data, can only occur between the Contracting Parties through
    Transactions.

2.  Prior to initiating a Transaction, the Sender shall implement
    appropriate technical and organisational measures to ensure that the
    organization receiving the SWAN Data is the other Contracting Party.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<u>Sending and Receiving SWAN Data</u>

3.  On receipt of the SWAN Data, the Receiver shall Sign the Transaction to
    confirm receipt of the SWAN Data. The Receiver shall not use any SWAN Data
    where the data relating to a User’s Preference as required under clause
    5.9.2 is missing from the SWAN Data or contains a null value.

4.  If the Receiver fails to Sign the Transaction but provides a response to
    that Transaction, then the Sender must Sign to confirm that it sent the
    SWAN Data to that Receiver as soon as it becomes aware of the Receiver’s
    failure.

5.  If the Receiver fails to Sign the Transaction but does not provide a
    response to that Transaction, then the Sender should Sign to confirm
    that it sent the SWAN Data to that Receiver as soon as it becomes aware
    of the Receiver’s failure.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<u>User Interface Providers</u>

6.  No Contracting Party other than a User Interface Provider shall be
    permitted to collect or send Raw SWAN Data.

7.  If a Contracting Party is a User Interface Provider, it shall:

    1.  ensure that it has entered into a Main Agreement with a SWAN
        Operator, whose terms may not be modified by a Main Agreement with
        any other organization;

    2.  not send any Raw SWAN Data to a Party in connection with these Model
        Terms other than a SWAN Operator with whom it has entered into a
        Main Agreement;

    3.  ensure that the functionality allowing Users to provide their
        Preferences and Raw SWAN Data to the SWAN Network is operating
        properly at all times; and

    4.  include a clear and prominent notice for Users in the User Interface
        explaining that its functionality may relate to the SWAN Network and
        other, unrelated consent management or preference functionality.

8.  Each Contracting Party shall ensure that:

    1.  any Party that uses the User Interface includes a link or other
        visible mechanism that permits access and use of the User Interface
        on every webpage accessible to Users; and

    2.  such User Interface is compatible with the standards and
        requirements notified by the SWAN Network.

9.  The User Interface Provider shall ensure that, at all times, its User
    Interface:

    1.  prominently displays the following text:

        “*You may change your preferences at any time by toggling the
        applicable preference options below. Please see further our Privacy
        Policy [hyperlinked to policy of Party that is the website
        operator]”*

        *“These details are shared with the SWAN Network to manage your
        preferences. See further the SWAN Network Privacy Notice
        [hyperlinked to joint privacy notice at www.swan.community]”*;

    2.  includes, as a minimum, the following Preference (including opt-in
        mechanism and text without amendment) and ensures that any
        preference option defaults to no/opted-out and permits Users to
        easily and immediately access and read the text marked with an
        asterisk below:

        *Personalized marketing [opt-in mechanism]\**. *You may still
        receive targeted content unrelated to your browsing activity or
        interactions.*

        *Your consent will automatically expire 2 years after you provide
        it.  You have a right to be forgotten, which you can exercise at any
        time by resetting your Secure Web ID. You can also obtain a
        temporary Secure Web ID by using the incognito/private browsing
        function of your browser.*

        *\* Select to consent to receive targeted content to a web-enabled
        device based on your browsing activity and interactions.*

    3.  prominently displays the following text next to the functionality
        that permits collection of Raw SWAN Data from the User:

        *By providing your email address, you can apply your preferences to
        your experience when you use other web-enabled devices.*

    4.  can be configured to provide Users with a link to retrieve the User
        Interface to view, edit and update their SWAN Data, including their
        Preferences.

10.   The User Interface Provider shall ensure that no Party, including the
    User Interface Provider itself, may alter, amend or delete any text or
    functionality required under clause 5.9, except that the User Interface
    Provider shall be permitted to create accurate language translations of
    any such text where appropriate and to provide additional consent
    management and preference functionality in respect of activities not
    required under that clause (by way of example only, age verification),
    subject always to the restrictions in clause 6.

11.   When a User accesses the User Interface to update their Preferences
    and/or Raw SWAN Data, the User Interface Provider shall share the
    updated Preferences and/or Raw SWAN Data with the SWAN Operator with
    whom it has a Main Agreement.

12. The User Interface Provider shall have access to Raw SWAN Data and,
    consequently, it warrants that it has implemented and maintains specific
    technical and organisational measures to safeguard any and all Raw SWAN
    Data in its possession.

131. If a Contracting Party is a User Interface Provider for another Party,
    then it may not use any SWAN Data processed for that other Party for the
    User Interface Provider’s own purposes unless it independently receives
    that SWAN Data in its capacity as a Party that is not a User Interface
    Provider under a separate Main Agreement.

**6.  RESTRICTED USES**

1.  <u>Restricted Data and Restricted Profiling</u>

    1.  No Contracting Party shall directly or indirectly use any Restricted
        Data in connection with the SWAN Data including for any Restricted
        Profiling, except where this is strictly necessary and permitted by
        applicable laws.

2.  <u>Reidentification</u>

    1.  Subject to clause 6.2.2, neither Contracting Party shall identify the
        offline identity of a User from SWAN Data.

    2.  The restriction in clause 6.2.1 shall not apply in respect of a User
        who has provided Personal Data from which they can be identified
        offline directly to a Receiver when engaging with that Receiver’s
        web property.

**7.  DATA PROTECTION**

1.  Subject to clause 7.2, the Contracting Parties acknowledge and agree
    that for the purposes of Data Protection Laws each is an independent and
    separate Controller of its processing of Personal Data in connection
    with these Model Terms. Each such Contracting Party warrants to the
    other that it has obtained consent to the extent required by both
    Contracting Parties to comply with Data Protection Laws in connection
    with the uses of SWAN Data and Non-SWAN Data contemplated under these
    Model Terms.

2.  Any Contracting Party that is a User Interface Provider for another
    Party shall be a Processor in relation to its processing of Personal
    Data under its Main Agreement with that Party. Accordingly, under its
    Main Agreement with a SWAN Operator (or any other Party), the User
    Interface Provider shall be deemed to be acting on behalf (and on the
    documented instructions) of its contracted Controller relevant to the
    Transaction being processed by the User Interface Provider.

3.  The Standard Processor Clauses shall apply between each User Interface
    Provider and the Party that is its Controller in accordance with clause
    7.2 and shall be deemed incorporated into these Model Terms. Those
    Standard Processor Clauses shall be deemed populated with the Processor
    Processing Description.

4.  To the extent that a Transaction between the Contracting Parties is a
    Restricted Transfer, the applicable Standard Transfer Clauses shall
    apply between them and shall be deemed incorporated into these Model
    Terms. Those Standard Transfer Clauses shall be deemed populated with
    the Processor Processing Description and the Security Measures (for
    Restricted Transfers to a Contracting Party that is a Processor) or with
    the Controller Processing Description (for Restricted Transfers to a
    Contracting Party that is a Controller).

5.  For the purposes of these Model Terms including the Standard Processor
    Clauses and Standard Transfer Clauses, the Sender consents to the onward
    transfer of SWAN Data and Non-SWAN Data and to permit the Receiver to
    subcontract the processing of that data (as applicable).

6.  If the Receiver or any of its subcontractors (“**Receiver Parties**”)
    receives a mandatory request, order, demand, notice or direction from
    any government agency or other public authority to disclose any SWAN
    Data or Non-SWAN Data whether or not in writing and whether or not
    referencing any Data Protection Laws or identifying any specific Users
    (“**Data Production Request**”), it shall deal with the Data Production
    Request in accordance with the following terms in this clause 7.6:

    1.  The Receiver Parties shall not disclose any Personal Data to any
        person in response to a Data Production Request unless either they
        are under a compelling statutory obligation to make such disclosure,
        or (having regard to the circumstances and the rights and freedoms
        of any affected Data Subjects) there is an imminent risk of serious
        harm that merits disclosure in any event (for example, to protect
        individuals’ vital interests).

    2.  Where, in accordance with this clause 7.6, disclosure of the
        Personal Data is required in response to a Data Production Request,
        the Receiver Parties shall notify the Sender in writing in advance
        (setting out all relevant details) and shall thereafter provide all
        reasonable cooperation and assistance to the Sender and, if
        requested by the Sender, assist it with any application, injunction,
        order or request to prevent (or where that is not possible, to
        delay) the disclosure of that Personal Data.

    3.  Except where the imminent risk of serious harm prohibits prior
        notification, the applicable Receiver Parties shall notify and
        consult with the relevant Supervisory Authority in respect of the
        Data Production Request, and at all times thereafter cooperate with
        that authority and the Sender to deal with and address the Data
        Production Request. Each of the Receiver Parties shall, if permitted
        under applicable laws, suspend (or where not possible, apply to
        suspend) the Data Production Request so that it can notify and
        consult with the Sender and the relevant Supervisory Authority.

7.  Each Contracting Party shall implement appropriate technical and
    organisational measures to protect against accidental unlawful or
    unauthorised destruction, loss, alteration or disclosure of, or access
    to, the SWAN Data, and Non-SWAN Data where applicable (together,
    “**Security Measures**”) and shall set out or reference a description of
    all such measures in the Main Agreement.

8.  Each Contracting Party shall ensure that it publishes online a Privacy
    Notice relating to its processing of SWAN Data. Where it is the Root
    Party, the Contracting Party shall at all times provide a mechanism that
    allows the User to inspect the SWAN Audit Log and to access the Privacy
    Notices of the Parties included in that log.

**8.  BREACH & TERMINATION**

1.  <u>Breach of these Model Terms</u>

    1.  In the event a Contracting Party breaches these Model Terms the
        relevant Contracting Party shall make a Breach Notification in
        accordance with clause 8.2.

2.  <u>Breach Notification</u>

    1.  If a Contracting Party becomes aware of a breach of these Model
        Terms by a Party:

        1.  the defaulting Contracting Party shall without undue delay (and
            in any event within 72 hours of becoming aware) cure the breach
            or, where this is not possible within such period, publish a
            prominent notification on its website, in a language appropriate
            for the applicable Users, setting out the following (“**Breach
            Notice**”):

            1.  the identity of the Contracting Party;

            2.  the nature of the breach and, in particular, whether the
                Contracting Party has engaged in any of the restricted
                activities under clause 6; and

            3.  any steps the Contracting Party has taken to cure the
                breach; or

        2.  the innocent Contracting Party shall take the following steps in
            relation to any defaulting Party:

            1.  to the extent known, notify that Party with the information
                set out in clause 8.2.1.1; and

            2.  publish the Breach Notice on its website within 72 hours of
                becoming aware that the defaulting Party has failed to
                comply with clause 8.2.1.1.

3.  <u>Termination</u>

    1.  A Contracting Party may terminate the Main Agreement if the other
        Contracting Party:

        1.  fails to comply with its obligations under clause 8.2 (Breach
            Notifications);

        2.  commits an incurable and material breach of these Model Terms in
            the Main Agreement between the Contracting Parties;

        3.  commits a curable breach of these Model Terms in the Main
            Agreement between the Contracting Parties but fails to cure that
            breach within 14 days of becoming aware of the breach; or

        4.  receives a notice from a Supervisory Authority requiring either
            Contracting Party to cease processing SWAN Data.

    2.  The innocent Contracting Party shall determine in its sole
        discretion whether or not a breach by the defaulting Contracting
        Party is a material breach but shall, acting reasonably and in good
        faith, have regard to the following when exercising that discretion:

        1.  whether the breach was deliberate, wilful or resulted from the
            defaulting Contracting Party’s negligence;

            1.  the volume and frequency of the breach and any prior
                breaches;

            2.  whether the breach involved a failure to comply with the
                restrictions in clause 6;

            3.  whether, as a result of the breach, an organization that is
                not a Party linked any Non-SWAN Data to the SWAN Data; and

            4.  whether, as a result of the breach, an organization that is
                not a Party linked the User’s offline identity to the SWAN
                Data.

4.  Effect of Termination

    1.  If the Main Agreement between the Contracting Parties terminates or
        expires, the Contracting Parties shall immediately cease sending or
        receiving SWAN Data and using it for the purposes set out in clause
        4.4 (but not clauses 4.4.5 or 4.4.5, which shall survive the
        termination or expiry of that Main Agreement).

**9.  WARRANTY & LIABILITY**

1.  No Warranty

    EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET OUT IN THE MAIN AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE
    CONTRACTING PARTIES, THE SENDER PROVIDES THE SWAN DATA AND NON-SWAN DATA
    "AS IS" WITHOUT REPRESENTATION OR WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED
    OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
    MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. IN PARTICULAR,
    EACH CONTRACTING PARTY ACKNOWLEDGES AND AGREES THAT ENTRY BY IT INTO ANY
    MAIN AGREEMENT DOES NOT OF ITSELF GUARANTEE THAT EITHER CONTRACTING
    PARTY WILL BE COMPLIANT WITH ANY OR ALL DATA PROTECTION LAWS OR OTHER
    APPLICABLE LAWS.

2.  Liability

    1.  SUBJECT TO CLAUSE 9.2.2, NOTHING IN ANY MAIN AGREEMENT SHALL LIMIT
        OR EXCLUDE THE LIABILITY OF A CONTRACTING PARTY TO ANY OTHER PARTY
        IN CONNECTION WITH THESE MODEL TERMS.

    2.  TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED UNDER APPLICABLE LAWS, A CONTRACTING
        PARTY SHALL NOT BE LIABLE TO ANY OTHER PARTY IN CONNECTION WITH ANY
        BREACH NOTIFICATION IT MAKES UNDER THESE MODEL TERMS PROVIDED THAT
        THE CONTRACTING PARTY CAN REASONABLY DEMONSTRATE IT MADE THAT
        NOTIFICATION IN GOOD FAITH AND REMOVES OR CORRECTS (AS APPLICABLE)
        ANY BREACH NOTIFICATION MADE IN OR CONTAINING AN ERROR IMMEDIATELY
        AFTER BECOMING AWARE OF THE ERROR.

**10.  OTHER IMPORTANT TERMS**

1.  <u>Intellectual Property</u>

    Nothing in these Model Terms transfers any ownership of any intellectual
    property rights of a Contracting Party to the other Contracting Party.

2.  <u>Interpretation</u>

    In these Model Terms, headings are used for convenience only and shall
    not control the meaning or the interpretation of any of the provisions
    in these Models Terms and words that appear after the expression
    “include”, “including”, “other” “for example”, “such as” or “in
    particular” (or any similar expression) in these Model Terms shall not
    limit the meaning of the words appearing before such expression.

3.  <u>Conflict</u>

    Nothing in the Main Agreement shall be construed as overriding or
    superseding these Model Terms. If there is any conflict or inconsistency
    between the provisions of the Main Agreement then the following order of
    precedence shall apply: first, the Standard Processor Clauses and
    Standard Transfer Clauses (to the extent each is applicable), second,
    the remaining Model Terms and third, the remaining provisions of the
    Main Agreement.

4.  <u>Severability</u>

    If any part of these Model Terms is found to be unenforceable as a
    matter of law, all other parts of these Model Terms will not be affected
    and shall remain in force.

5.  <u>Changes to these Model Terms</u>

    1.  These Model Terms may be subject to change from time to time.
        Changes to these Model Terms shall be communicated to Parties by way
        of publication of the modified terms on the SWAN Website.

    2.  Subject to clause 10.5.3, any changes to the Model Terms in the Main
        Agreement between the Contracting Parties shall be effective 30 days
        after the date of publication except where stated to be effective
        sooner as a result of a Change in Law.

    3.  If any of the changes to the Model Terms published on the SWAN
        Website modify the definition of SWAN Data or Raw SWAN Data, the
        purposes set out in clause 4.4 or any other fundamental aspect of
        the model relating to the SWAN Ecosystem (as notified on the SWAN
        Website):

        1.  clause 10.5.2 shall not apply; and

        2.  the Main Agreement between the Contracting Parties shall
            terminate if the Contracting Parties do not enter into a Main
            Agreement incorporating the modified Model Terms within 30 days
            of publication.

    4.  Any changes made to the Model Terms in accordance with this clause
        10.5 shall only apply to SWAN Data sent or received after the
        modified Model Terms come into force.

**11.  GOVERNING LAW & JURISDICTION**

1.  Subject to the governing law that applies to any Standard Transfer
    Clauses in accordance with those clauses, these Model Terms shall be
    governed and interpreted in accordance with the governing law expressly
    specified elsewhere in the Main Agreement or the following jurisdiction
    if the Main Agreement does not specify any governing law:

    1.  the jurisdiction in which the Contracting Parties are established
        where they are both established in the same jurisdiction:

    2.  England and Wales, where the Contracting Parties are established in
        different jurisdictions.

2.  If any provision(s) of these Model Terms cannot be given legal effect
    under the governing law applicable to the Model Terms in accordance with
    clause 11.1 then the presiding arbitrator shall apply the local law that
    most closely approximates that particular provision(s).

3.  In the event of any dispute arising out of or in connection with these
    Model Terms, including in relation to any Breach Notification, the
    Contracting Parties agree that either Contracting Party may submit the
    matter, in the first instance, to administered expert proceedings in
    accordance with the Rules for the Administration of Expert Proceedings
    of the International Chamber of Commerce (“**ICC**”).

4.  After the conclusion of the ICC’s administered expert proceedings, the
    dispute shall be finally settled under the Rules of Arbitration of the
    ICC (“**Rules**”) by one arbitrator appointed in accordance with the
    said rules.

5.  The seat, or legal place, of arbitration shall be London, England and
    all disputes heard within the Rules shall be heard in English or such
    other language mutually acceptable to the Contracting Parties.

6.  The forum for all disputes heard within the Rules shall be London,
    England or such other location as is mutually agreed by the Contracting
    Parties.

7.  Nothing in this clause 11 or in the Rules shall prevent either
    Contracting Party from applying to the courts of any jurisdiction for
    such provisional or protective measures as are available under the laws
    of that jurisdiction, including seeking interlocutory and/or injunctive
        relief.

**SWAN Model Terms**

**Annex**

1.  **Controller Processing Description**

    -   **Data Subjects:** Users.

    -   **Purposes of the transfer:** To allow a Sender to make a Transaction to
        a Receiver in connection with the purposes set out in the Binding
        Principles.

    -   **Categories of data**: SWAN Data and Non-SWAN Data.

    -   **Recipients:** Further Parties with whom the Receiver will share
        the SWAN Data and Non-SWAN Data.

    -   **Sensitive data**: None.

    -   **Data protection registration information of the Sender**: As set
        out on the Sender’s website.

    -   **Additional useful information**: Not applicable.

    -   **Contact points for data protection enquiries**: As set out in the
        website of the relevant Contracting Party.

    -   **Clause II(h) option:** sub-clause (iii).

2.  **Processor Processing Description**

    -   **Subject matter, purpose and nature of processing/processing operations:**
        Processing necessary for the User Interface Provider to collect, record and
        manage each User’s Preferences and Raw SWAN Data. The processing involves
        the collection, transmission, writing and retrieval of SWAN Data and Raw
        SWAN Data in connection with the SWAN Network.

    -   **Duration of processing:** The term of the Main Agreement or such other
        period as instructed by the Contracting Party that is the User Interface
        Provider’s Controller.

    -   **Type of Personal Data processed and categories of Data Subjects:**
        SWAN Data relating to Users and Raw SWAN Data (but, for the
        avoidance of doubt, no Restricted Data).

    -   **Rights and obligations of the Controller:** The rights and
        obligations of the Contracting Party that is the User Interface
        Provider’s Controller shall be as set out in these Model Terms and
        Data Protection Laws.
